About Dataset

Context
We examined codon usage frequencies in the genomic coding DNA of a large sample of diverse organisms from different taxa tabulated in the CUTG database, 
where we further manually curated and harmonized these existing entries by re-classifying CUTG's bacteria (bct) class into archaea (arc), plasmids (plm), 
and bacteria proper (keeping with the original label bct'). The reclassification in the originalbct' domain was simplified by extracting from files qbxxx.spsum.txt' 
(where xxx = bct (bacteria), inv (invertebrates), mam (mammals), pln (plants), pri (primates), rod (rodents), vrt (vertebrates)) the different genus names of the entries, 
and making the classification by genus. There were 514 different genus names. The different genus categories were checked and relabeled asarc' where appropriate. In the 
eubacterial entries, the distinction was made of the bacterial genomes proper (keeping with the original label bct'), and bacterial plasmids (now labeledplm').

Content

Column 1: Kingdom
Column 2: DNAtype
Column 3: SpeciesID
Column 4: Ncodons
Column 5: SpeciesName
Columns 6-69: codon (header: nucleotide bases; entries: frequency of usage (5 digit floating point number))

The 'Kingdom' is a 3-letter code corresponding to `xxx' in the CUTG database name: 'arc'(archaea), 'bct'(bacteria), 'phg'(bacteriophage), 
'plm' (plasmid), 'pln' (plant), 'inv' (invertebrate), 'vrt' (vertebrate), 'mam' (mammal), 'rod' (rodent), 'pri' (primate), and 'vrl'(virus) 
sequence entries. Note that the CUTG database does not contain 'arc' and 'plm' (these have been manually curated ourselves).

The 'DNAtype' is denoted as an integer for the genomic composition in the species: 0-genomic, 1-mitochondrial, 2-chloroplast, 3-cyanelle, 
4-plastid, 5-nucleomorph, 6-secondary_endosymbiont, 7-chromoplast, 8-leucoplast, 9-NA, 10-proplastid, 11-apicoplast, and 12-kinetoplast.

The species identifier ('SpeciesID') is an integer, which uniquely indicates the entries of an organism. It is an accession identifier for each 
different species in the original CUTG database, followed by the first item listed in each genome.

The number of codons (`Ncodons') is the algebraic sum of the numbers listed for the different codons in an entry of CUTG. 
Codon frequencies are normalized to the total codon count, hence the number of occurrences divided by 'Ncodons' is the codon frequencies listed in the data file.

The species' name ('SpeciesName') is represented in strings purged of comma' (which are now replaced byspace'). 
This is a descriptive label of the name of the species for data interpretations.

Lastly, the codon frequencies ('codon') including 'UUU', 'UUA', 'UUG', 'CUU', etc., are recorded as floats (with decimals in 5 digits).

Acknowledgements
- Khomtchouk BB: 'Codon usage bias levels predict taxonomic identity and genetic composition'. bioRxiv, 2020, doi: 10.1101/2020.10.26.356295.
- Nakamura Y, Gojobori T, Ikemura T: 'Codon usage tabulated from international DNA sequence databases: status for the year 2000'. Nucleic Acids Research, 2000, 28:292.
